In this lesson, we will do a little refactoring. Let's create a weapon component
and all the logic related to the weapon will be in it. And also create an entry point for shooting.
Therefore, we will start with you a new action mapping - Fire.
Add a new action mapping to project settings, input. Name it Fire and assign this
mapping to the left mouse button. We will shoot by clicking on the left mouse button.
We return to the content browser. Let's create a weapon component.
Go to the components folder. We inherit from Actor Component.
Let's call it STUWeaponComponent.
Click the create class button.
Our component has been created. I cleaned it up a bit beforehand. I set the
bCanEverTick variable to false and removed the Tick function itself.
Let's move all the logic we wrote in the first tutorial related to weapons into our new
weapon component. We did this initially in the character in order to concentrate on the spawning of weapons
and not to complicate everything from the very beginning with the architecture of the components. Therefore, we transfer the SpawnWeapon function first.
Add it to BeginPlay in the component. Remove the SpawnWeapon from the character class.
We transfer the BaseWeapon header file to the component.
From the character's header file, we transfer the weapon class that we want to spawn.
Add it to the protected section of the component header file.
We transfer the forward declaration for BaseWeapon.
Moving the declaration of the SpawnWeapon function
Add a private section and insert the declaration of the SpawnWeapon function.
All is ready. We have moved all the logic to the weapon component. But we need to tweak a few things. Let's go to the .cpp file.
So, the SpawnWeapon function creates a weapon of the WeaponClass class in the world and then attaches
this weapon to the mesh. Naturally, there is no mesh in the component, but you and I have a
pointer to the owner of the component on owner, so let's include the character.
And we cast the pointer to the pawn, which returns the GetOwner function to the Character class.
We make a check: if our pointer is null, then we immediately exit the function.
If Cast is successful, then we call the GetMesh function of the character. Also, let's rewrite the if with the weapon
so that we have a uniformity: if the pointer is null, then we exit the function.
It is also more readable because we are not producing indentation. One more point. Let's bring Cast to the character
above the weapon, because if there is no character, then we won't even spawn the weapon.
For the socket name, let's create a property so that we can change it in the blueprint. Let's name our variable WeaponAttachPointName
and add it to the .h file as well. The variable must be of type FName.
So, we spawned the weapon with you, attached it to the character. All perfectly. We will add the component to the character a little later.
Let's declare a function that will be the entry point for shooting. Let's call it Fire.
We also create the body of the function in a .cpp file. I don't always use the automatic create declaration / defenition function,
because sometimes visual studio is slow and this operation takes too
long. Easier to add manually. The logic will be as follows: the player will press the button for the action Fire.
We will call the Fire function in the weapon component and then the Fire function of the weapon will be called
. We will have two types of weapons, so all the logic of changing weapons,
reloading will also be in this component. This is quite convenient because
we encapsulate this logic in a component. We need to get a pointer to the weapon, so let's
create a CurrentWeapon class variable instead of the local Weapon variable.
Go to the .h file. Also, do not forget that all pointers must be marked at the top with the UPROPERTY macro.
Otherwise, there may be problems with the garbage collector in the unreal engine.
We make the default pointer null.
All CurrentWeapon we now have a member variable.
Therefore, we can use it in the Fire function. Let's first check
that the CurrentWeapon pointer is not null. If it is zero, then we immediately exit the function.
And if the pointer is not null, then we call the Fire function, which
does not yet exist in our BaseWeapon class. Let's create it. Let's go to the BaseWeapon class.
We add the body of the Fire function and also we need to declare it in the .h file. We copy. Add to the .h file.
Let's make this function virtual right away, because we will have inheritors of the BaseWeapon class in the future.
And our weapons will shoot in different ways. Therefore, we make the function virtual in
order to redefine it in the future. We will write the logic of shooting in the next lessons.
For now, let's just add a local log category and log "Fire".
We'll call the category LogBaseWeapon and when shooting occurs, we'll just type "Fire".
We all made a bunch of BaseWeapon with the weapon component, that is, when
the Fire function of the weapon component is called, the Fire function of the CurrentWeapon class will be called.
Add a weapon component to our character. We have already added many components, so
I will not focus on this. The only thing is that the weapon component, like the
health component, is purely logical - it does not need to configure attachment.
The only thing left to do is bind the function. To do this, we move to the SetupPlayerInputComponent function.
Add BindAction. We call it Fire. The action will take place on Pressed.
And here is perhaps the most tricky moment of this entire lesson. We will now call the function not of the character,
but directly of the weapon component. Therefore, we pass a pointer to this object
and indicate a link to the function of our object, which we created for shooting - Fire.
And also for correctness, let's add a check for our component.
So, we have completed the refactoring. Let's run and watch.
Go to the character's blueprint.
The weapon component has been created.
SocketPoint is now available in details, in the weapon category.
And we specify the class for the BP_STUBaseWeapon weapon.
We open the log, clean it. We start the game. The weapon spawned, that is, the refactoring
was successful and by pressing the left mouse button "Fire" is printed.